---
layout: page
title: Setting height and width
permalink: /getting-started/setting-height-and-width/
parent: Getting started
nav_order: 3
description: >-
  For height and width you have two options. Setting it in your HTML or using
  the API to crop your images on the fly. 
---
# Setting height and width
{: .no_toc }
{: .fs-9 }

Learn how to set the height and width for your images with the API.
{: .fs-6 .fw-300 }

<hr>

Table of contents
{: .text-delta }
- TOC
{:toc}

<hr>

## Setting height & width in HTML

When sending an HTML snippet to the API it will auto crop your image to the height/width of the **outermost HTML element**. 

- The following example will generate a screenshot that is 400px wide and 200px tall.

**Note**: _This works for HTML snippets only. Full HTML pages (has `<html>` and `<body>` tags) will not automatically crop._

<div class="code-example" markdown="1">
<div class="hcti-container">
  <div style="height: 200px; width: 400px; border: 1px solid; text-align: center; background-color: white;">
    <h2>Hello, world</h2>
  </div>
</div>

</div>
```html
<div style="height: 200px; width: 400px; border: 1px solid; text-align: center;">
  <h2>Hello, world</h2>
</div>
```

See how in the code sample we have set the `height: 200px; width: 400px;` in the outermost `div`.

### Adding margins around the image

Margins are respected by the auto crop. To add some space around your image, you can add `margin: 20px` to the outermost element.

<div class="code-example" markdown="1">

<div class="hcti-container">
  <div style="height: 200px; width: 400px; margin: 20px; border: 1px solid; text-align: center; background-color: white;">
    <h2>Height and width example</h2>
  </div>
</div>

</div>
```html
<div style="height: 200px; width: 400px; margin: 20px; border: 1px solid; text-align: center;">
  <h2>Height and width example</h2>
</div>
```

## Setting the Viewport

When rendering your image, we use a live instance of Google Chrome running on one of our servers. In Chrome, the viewport is the total viewable area rendered
by the browser. 

- By default, the viewport is set to: `1366x768`. If you use the API to screenshot a `url` or send a full HTML page, you will get back an image
rendered inside the default viewport.

- You can customize this by adjusting the `viewport_height` and `viewport_width` parameters while creating your image.

- We recommend using this for images rendered by `url` or when sending a full page. HTML snippets are better sized using automatic cropping and height/width in CSS.

## Understanding high resolution (retina) images

Every device has a **DPR (device pixel ratio)**. Higher quality screens will have a 2x or higher DPR. This means, for crip/clear images, they need 2x or 3x as many pixels
as a traditional, lower resolution screen.

- We render HTML/CSS images **@2X** by default. 
- This results in a high quality image that will work well with any monitor. 
- When specifying **400px** in your HTML, the resulting image will be **800px** to account for high resolution screens.

## Resize on the fly with query params

Every image generated by the API can also be adjusted on the fly with the `height` and `width` query params.

- This is useful for displaying images at different resolutions without having to setup your own CDN.

- When only one param is passed, the API will maintain the aspect ratio of the original image.

### Examples

**?width=400**

{% cloudinary /assets/images/w400.jpeg sizes="200px" alt="Auto adjust the width of your image" %}

**?height=300**

{% cloudinary /assets/images/h300.jpeg sizes="300px" alt="Auto adjust the height of your image" %}

## Height and width for print

Images generated by the API can also be used for print. Learn how to convert pixels to DPI (dots per inch).

- **Inches to pixels Formula:**`(DPI * (size in inches)) / 2 = pixels`
- DPI = Dots Per Inch. For a high quality print, you will want 300 DPI.

### A4 paper example

For a 300 DPI print on A4 \(8.27 x 11.69 inches\) paper, you would do the following:

- Width: `(300 * 8.27) / 2 = 1240 pixels`
- Height: `(300 * 11.69) / 2 = 1754 pixels`

### Business card example

For a 300 DPI business card \(3.5 x 2 inches\).

- Width: `(300 * 3.5) / 2 = 525 pixels`
- Height: `(300 * 2) / 2 = 300 pixels`

Once you have determined your height and width in pixels, you can then set your HTML to render the exact size you need. We recommend doing this by adding `height` and `width` style parameters to the outermost HTML element in your code.

{% include code_footer.md version=3 %}
